---
title: Advances in Geospatial Data Science 2024
# feature_image: "https://picsum.photos/2560/600?image=872"
feature_image: assets/banner.png
permalink: /
---

Dates: 9/09/2024 (Monday) - 13/09/2024 (Friday)

Venue: University of Southampton 

Description: [Southampton Geospatial](https://www.southampton.ac.uk/research/institutes-centres/southampton-geospatial) is pleased to announce the upcoming __summer school in Advances in Geospatial Data Science__. The summer school will be delivered by world leading experts in geospatial data science with an aim to deepen participants’ knowledge and skills in the field of geospatial data science from the state-of-the-art methods, tools and applications used in research. It will provide a broad overview of recent advances in the following areas with an element of practical-based learning. 

- _Artificial intelligence:_ This will cover topics like machine learning, deep learning, and AI in geospatial data 
- _Geospatial big data Analysis:_ Subject would cover complex spatial analysis, such as modeling spatial relationships, geostatistics, and spatial interpolation and application to Digital twins.  
- _Remote Sensing:_ Participants will explore advances in sensing techniques from UAVs to satellites.  
- _Ethics and Privacy:_ An essential aspect would be discussing the ethical implications of geospatial data science, including privacy concerns, bias, and responsible data usage. 
- _Applied Projects:_ Participants will have opportunity to work on real-world projects, applying their knowledge to solve geospatial challenges. This could involve areas in environmental monitoring, urban planning, disaster management, or precision agriculture. 


Interdisciplinary Approach: The summer school will foster collaboration between geospatial experts and professionals from various domains to address complex problems using a multi-disciplinary lens. 

__Target Participants__:  We are hoping the summer school will be beneficial to a wide range of audiences including, Geospatial analysists from industry, PhD students working with geospatial data and Doctoral training programs.

__Registration__:  Fees for the Advances in Geospatial Data Science summer school is £1000, which includes participation in all learning activities and organised social activities during the week. Participants are expected to cover their own travel and accommodation. Total number of places are limited to 20 participants and will be offered on first come first serve basis. 

How to book your place [register here](https://go.soton.ac.uk/g3z). Any queries please contact [geospatial@soton.ac.uk](mailto:geospatial@soton.ac.uk).

__Preliminary schedule:__

|			| AM	                      |	PM                                     | Evening                    |
|-----------|-----------------------------|----------------------------------------|----------------------------|
|09th Sept	| Sensing and Data collection | Tour of facilities                     | Introduction to Challenges |
|10th Sept  | Geospatial AI               | Research Showcase 	                   | Challenge planning         |
|11th Sept  | Open Source Data and Ethics | Guided work  on solution to Challenges | Group dinner               |
|12th Sept  | Tools and Models            | Tools demonstration                    | Group work on pitch        |
|13th Sept  | External Panel              | Solution pitching                      | Closing ceremony and Award |


 


